# roVer Application Layer
This document describes the assumptions and model for the roVer applications.

## Motivation and Example Applications
The roVer approach provides robust information dissemination for a wide range
of applications for mobile persons (e.g. pedestrians or public transport
users).

**Categories**
1. Safety (e.g. information on the local density of persons in order to avoid
   overcrowded areas, entrances, shopping stores - in particular in situations
   like the Corona pandemic, emergency alerts, cooperative situation awareness)
2. Mobility (e.g. proactive traffic information system, monitoring usage of
   public transportation systems)
3. Infotainment (e.g. tourist information, temperature/weather map, local
   advertisements)

Within roVer, the focus is on the first two categories.


## Assumptions
* Dissemination of location-dependent information for a mobile person
  (pedestrian, public transport, idividual transport)
* Information can be associated with a time-stamp. More recent information
  (larger value of associated time-stamp) is a more accurate representation of
  the current situation.
* Address of source and destination of information (e.g. IP- or MAC-addresses)
  are not known beforehand.
* The relevance (utility) of information decreases with increasing geographic
  distance to the location it refers to.
* Information on a coarse scale may be still useful at larger distances.
  For example in direct to medium vicinity to a location, a more granular grid is needed but with increasing distance the cells can be larger.

## General Model 

* The geographic area is subdevided into (rectangular) cells of length *a*.
* Each cell *i* has an associated value *v_i* and time-stamp *t_i*.
* A value *v_i* of a cell changes within random time-intervals (random variable
  with a pdf that is application specific).
* Shannon entropy (calculated based on number of cells and pdfs for *v_i* and
  *t_i*) can be used to characterize the amount of information that is
  generated by the application and should be disseminated.


### Extension: Confidence Value
* Motivation: In many applications, using the time-stamp as sole indication for the correctness of a measurement is not sufficient.
* In addition to the data and time-stamp values, each cell also has an associated confidence value *c_i* in the interval [0,1]. 
* The initial *c_i* is set when a new data value for a cell is measured. It indicates the confidence of the generating node in the measured value and can, for example, depend on:
  * geographical distance of the measuring node to the cell
  * signal strength of nodes contributing to the measurement (e.g. in case of the density map the estimation of the number of nodes within the cell)
  * confidence values of measurement input (e.g. GPS position)
  * etc..
* The confidence value is disseminated within the network in addtion to the data value and the time-stamp. When aggegating received maps into the own cell map of the node, the confidence value is taken into account. This allows a receiving node to keep an older received value for a cell even if a newer value is received, if the confidence of the newer received data value is low. (Optimal relation of information age and confidence is an open issue.)

### Extension - optimized variant:
* Motivation: Reduce amount of data to disseminated for a map.
* In order to reduce the amount of information to be disseminated, the time-stamp value for a cell is not disseminated. Instead, the infomation age is taken into account when calculating the confidence of a cell -- with increasing age the confidence decreases. Data aggregation is based on confidence only.
* Nodes periodically (e.g. every second) decrease the confidence value of all cells in the map. Open issue: Should confidence decrease linearly with increasing information age? 


## Extended Model
* Aggregation of multiple cells: Values of multiple cells can be aggregated,
  e.g. for users at a larger distance. This reduces the precision of the
  location (due to the increased area of the aggregated cell) but also the amount of data which needs to be disseminated.

## Implemented Example Applications

Within roVer, the following applications are implemented in order to
investigate the performance in various mobility and network situations:
1. **Local density map**: Measures local densities of mobile persons and disseminates density information in order to avoid overcrowded areas.
2. TBD: **Generic Information Dissemination**: A more generic application model which models the data generated by an application by independent identically distributed (iid) random variables for each cell. Time-intervals in which data values for cells change are also modeled by iid random variables. Since for information dissemination the AID service is used, this application model allows to investigate the performance of the AID service depending on the characteristics of the generated information to be disseminated.
3. TBD: **Vulnerable Road User (VRU) Protection** A VRU application/service which generates CAMs for pedestrians. (based on the CAMs implemented in Artery)
